# 3D-Architectural-Design
Source code for the bachelor's thesis on 3D Architectural Design using Text Conditional Generative Neural Networks. 

The purpose of this project is to accelerate the interior desing and home architectural planning processes by using neural networks. The student will test and fine-tune already existing solutions for Text-to-3D generative models, with a focus on the user inputs descriptions of furniture or decorative elements. The model will generate realistic and manipulatable 3D objects that fit the descriptions. A first step consists in the usage of a Named Entity Recognition (NER) model as natural language processing technique used for identifying and classifying the text, allowing for detection of objects to be included in the final 3D rendering. A conditional diffusion model will be used to generate 3D implicit functions, which can be rendered as both textured meshes and neural radiance fields. The training process will be done in two stages: first, training the encoder to explicit representation of a known 3D asset into the parameters of an implicit function; second, training a conditional model on outputs of the encoder, to assert the user description. Finally, an algorithm for dimentioning and arranging each generated object inside a fixed-size room will be proposed.

The project's contributions include implementing Named Entity Recognition (NER) processing methods to extract objects and their characteristics, as well as testing and fine-tuning existing Text-to-3D methods. Additionally, algorithms will be developed for the dimensioning and spatial arrangement of the generated 3D objects. These activities will facilitate the creation of advanced solutions in the field of text-based 3D modeling
